# Traffic_light_project
In the modern world, the density of the population in cities constantly increases along with the number of cars being used there daily. These expanding numbers make urban areas more and more challenging to move across intersections by special needs pedestrians like seniors, disabled people, etc. In order to make it easier for them, cities across the world come up with different systems and infrastructure improvements. The real challenge concerning that issue is improving the safety and comfort of special needs pedestrians without decreasing the same factors for other road users like for example drivers. This thesis is focused on research around finding the optimal solutions for that problem for a selected intersection in one of the biggest cities of Poland called Lodz. To achieve that goal the simulated environment of the Radwanska and Zeromskiego/Politechniki streets intersection has been created using NetEdit software. By using Python programming language traffic light control algorithm with the use of a researched modification of it called Safer Intersection Crossing System (SICS) has been developed. The goal was to implement such improvement that could work on selected intersections without changing its infrastructure. The basic traffic light control algorithm consisted of Cycle Based Controller sequentially changing the light phases with an induction loop detecting the need of switching on additional left turn phases for cars moving along the Zeromskiego/Politechniki streets. Safer Intersection Crossing System had multiple different functionalities that were tested by measuring the change in mean waiting time for vehicles as well as regular and special needs pedestrians. Additionally, the mean time spent on the crossing after the light turns red has been measured for special needs pedestrians. After obtaining the results it has been determined that improving the relative comfort and safety of special needs pedestrians by implementing SICS is possible and would not worsen the mean waiting time of vehicles significantly. The best and most optimal functionality of researched SICS consisted of three parts. After detecting the waiting special needs pedestrian it would switch the green light for him to cross earlier than it would happen normally. The second part would be to make that phase longer in order to make it possible for him to cross it without finishing the route at a red light or needing to stop on the island between zebra crossings. The third part would switch off the possibility to turn right for the vehicles whose route would go over zebra crossing with special needs pedestrians currently trying to cross. The final chapter of the thesis have also propositions for further improvements for SICS and ways to expand the research and tests of the simulated environment with traffic light control algorithms.
